# Zuber_Riding_Sharing_SQL_Code
This is a simulated student project where I am working as an analyst for Zuber, a new ride-sharing company launching in Chicago. My task is to find patterns in the available information (database with info on taxi rides in Chicago & weather records) to better understand passenger preferences and the impact of external factors - such as weather - on rides. By creating SQL queries in a simulated database, I was able to perform exploratory data analysis to identify those patterns. This allowed me to select, group, filter, join, and segment different parts of the database.
Initial results helped determine common attributes correlating to increased or decreased trip lengths as well as frequency of use:
> Ranked the most used taxi company in Chicago by the number of trips under their name. The company "Flash Cab" ranked the highest amount of trips made during the data's date range at 19,558 trips within a year, followed by "Taxi Affiliation Services" at 11,422 trips, and "Medallion Leasin" at 10,367 trips.  
> The “color” of the company name also affected the number of trips taken - such that the company ‘Yellow Cab’ took the most trips (9888 trips) compared to ‘Blue Ribbon Taxi Association Inc.’ (5953 trips). 
> Stakeholder-specific tasks were also performed to compare data between other companies and how they performed during various weather conditions - The duration of a trip is influenced by the severity of the weather conditions. Sorted and used the CASE operator to breakdown the hours of the day according to good weather and bad weather to perform cohort analysis. Performed a location-specific investigative analysis whether the duration of rides from the Loop to O'Hare International Airport changes on rainy Saturdays

Using SQL allowed me to aggregate the data and showcase initial competitor analysis against Zuber and provided the basis for consumer behavior on ride-sharing. Had this project continued, this would be converted in a data visualization with forecasting analysis in the market based on consumer trends and external factors that impact the rides, allowing the company to monitor the performance of their business from forecasted models against actual trip counts & durations. 
